.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii registercloudguest.1
.\"
.TH registercloudguest.1
.SH NAME
registercloudguest \- Register a SUSE Linux Enterprise instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B registercloudguest [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B registercloudguest
Register a SUSE Linux Enterprise instance with the closest, in most
cases region local, SUSE operated update infrastructure. The client will reach
out to a so called region server to obtain information about the closest
update servers. The information about how to find any one of the region
servers running in a given cloud framework is built into the image that
contains the registercloudguest executable. The information of the update
servers is cached to aid with HA fail-over if one of the update servers is
unreachable. The system is registered with the first responsive update server.

None of the region and update servers are resolvable via DNS and the update
server name resolution is enforced via an entry in /etc/hosts.

For on-demand instances users should not modify the default repository
configuration. It is highly likely that something on the system will break
if repositories are removed using SUSEConnect functionality. The addition
of other repositories is supported. However, adding other repositories may
cause problems when the migration path for a new service pack or distribution
upgrade is calculated. Additional repositories may have to be removed prior to
migration. The command line tool should only be used in exceptional
circumstances.

For BYOS instances the initial registration has to be completed using the
registercloudguest command. Registering additional products (repositories) is
done using the SUSEConnect command as it would be used in a data center
installation of a SUSE Linux Enterprise system. BYOS instances registered
against the update infrastructure are counted in the SUSE Customer Center
(SCC) in the subscription associated with the provided registration code.
The instance is visible in the SCC UI. The command line tool should only be
used for the initial registration of the system and for de-registration of
the system.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--clean"
Clean the running instance of any data related to repository setup and
instance registration. Use this option when creating new images from
running instances before taking the snapshot of the root volume. For BYOS
instances registered against the update infrastructure the system will be
removed from SCC.
.IP "-d --delay"
Delay the process by the given number of seconds.
.IP "-e --email"
The e-mail address associated with a subscription in SCC. Only use this option
for BYOS instances and in conjuction with "--regcode" option.
.IP "-f --config-file"
Specify the location of the configuration file. By default the configuration
file "/etc/regionserverclnt.cfg" is expected and used.
.IP "--force-new"
Force a new registration. This causes the previous registration data to be
discarded and the system to get re-registered as if it had never been
registered previously. This is an "emergency" switch and should be used only
in exceptional circumstances. This option and "--clean" are mutually exclusive.
This option does not work for BYOS instances that use the update
infrastructure and will result in a registration failure.
.IP "-r --regcode"
The registration code associated with a known SUSE subscription. Only use
this option for BYOS instances. The registration code is validated with SCC
and the system will be associated with the SCC subscription that is associated
with this registration code.
.IP "--smt-fp"
Specify the fingerprint of the update server certificate. This option must be
used in conjunction with "--smt-fqdn" and "--smt-ip".
.IP "--smt-fqdn"
Specify the update server fully qualified domain name. This option must be used
in conjunction with "--smt-fp" and "--smt-ip".
.IP "--smt-ip"
Specify the update server IP address. This option must be used
in conjunction with "--smt-fp" and "--smt-fqdn".
.SH AUTHOR
SUSE Public Cloud Team (public-cloud-dev@susecloud.net)
